PHEOEBE-GUI 0.30 TOPLEVEL DOCUMENTATION                      November 15, 2007
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hello, and thanks for your interest in PHOEBE!

THINGS YOU NEED TO KNOW
-----------------------

This is the first release in the new 0.3x series of PHOEBE's Graphical User
Interface (GUI). As such, this version of the software may exhibit some
instability, and possibly some missing features. We encourage you to give us
feedback about any unexpected behavior through the mailing lists and the
issue tracker on PHOEBE's homepage.

You may share, distribute and modify PHOEBE to your liking. For more
information on PHOEBE licensing please read the GNU/GPL license in PHOEBE
documentation.

The adapted version of the Wilson-Devinney code WD2007 is distributed with
PHOEBE. If you are new to WD, or want the original WD, please contact R. 
E. Wilson, University of Florida, and let him know that you use his software.

REQUIREMENTS
------------

To successfully setup PHOEBE-GUI, you need:

- A Linux machine

  PHOEBE-GUI has been successfully tested on the following platforms:

	* Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy) no issues (development platform)
	* Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty) no issues

- ANSI C compliant compiler (e. g. gcc)

- GTK+ library (version 2.4 or later)

- libglade library

- Gnuplot plotting package

- PHOEBE library, which also requires
	· FORTRAN 77 compliant compiler (e. g. g77)
	· f2c FORTRAN to C translator
	· GNU make

Optionally, you can setup PHOEBE-GUI to work with:

- Van Hamme limb darkening tables, downloadable from PHOEBE's homepage.

OBTAINING PHOEBE
----------------

The stable release can be downloaded from PHOEBE's homepage:

	http://phoebe.fiz.uni-lj.si

The development files can be checked out from anonymous SVN by issuing:

	svn checkout https://phoebe.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/phoebe/devel

Van Hamme limb darkening tables can also be obtained from SVN by issuing:

	svn checkout https://phoebe.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/phoebe/cats

INSTALLATION
------------

Installation instructions can be found in the top-level INSTALL file.

QUICKSTART
----------

Take this quick tour to learn the basic usage of PHOEBE-GUI. For how's and
why's of PHysics Of Eclipsing BinariEs, consult the Scientific reference,
downloadable from PHOEBE homepage.

The main window of PHOEBE-GUI is divided by tabs into Data, Parameters,
Fitting and Plotting sections.

In the Data tab you can load your observed light curves and radial velocity 
curves into PHOEBE, by clicking the Add buttons in the LC and RV frames 
respectively. All entries appear in the corresponding lists; you can then edit 
the entries either by 1) selecting (clicking) the list entry and pressing the 
Edit button, or 2) double-clicking the list entry. All the lists holding 
editable entries behave in the same manner. Finally, to remove an entry, select 
it and press the Remove button.

The Parameters tab is itself arranged as a series of tabs, which group the 
various physical properties of a binary system in logical units. A physical 
parameter has a value, and can be adjusted by minimization. You can alter the 
value of the parameter using its spin button. To mark the parameter for 
adjustment, tick the checkbox next to the value spin button. The Step, Min 
and Max spin buttons control the minimization process.

In the Fitting tab you can select the method of minimization, set its 
parameters, and see the results. Note that when you change the fitting method, 
the Parameters frame below will change too, showing the parameters of the 
currently selected method. Press the Calculate button to run the selected 
minimizer. If no parameters are marked for adjustment, minimizer will do 
nothing. You can review the results of fitting in the three lists detailing the 
old and the new parameter values and the quality of the fit; if you like the 
results, press the Update All button.

The Plotting tab is again divided into tabs: for light curve, radial velocity 
curve, and star shape plotting. In the LC and RV plotting tabs, you can select 
to plot observations only, or the modeled curve only, or both; choose the X and 
Y axes, and the starting and ending points of the plot. Pan and zoom controls 
are located on the right.

The frame in the right side, containing two lists of parameters, is the Summary 
frame. The upper list shows the parameters that get calculated from the model, 
and the bottom list shows all the parameters you marked for adjustment.

Please note that some parts of the GUI are "detachable", as indicated by a
small button depicting an arrow in their upper right corners. You can detach
the fitting and plotting frames, as well as the Summary frame by clicking their 
detach buttons. To reattach a detached frame, click its detach button again. 
The LC and RV plotting frames and the Fitting frame can also be detached and 
brought to front from the toolbar.

PHOEBE saves your work in "Parameter files" with ".phoebe" suffix. These files 
contain your binary system solutions as well as your GUI setup. You may edit
the parameter files by hand; if you enter an invalid parameter value, it will
simply be ignored.

CONTACT & FEEDBACK
------------------
 
Please send as much feedback as possible, it will be greatly appreciated. 
Visit PHOEBE's homepage to join our mailing lists and post a bug report or a 
feature request.

For the list of contributors, please take a look at the top-level AUTHORS file.
